Gossip, Tragedy, and Disaster
Observation 0: Disaster and Data (La signification de détruire des choses)

MEASURE (Feature Engineering - Citation/Statistics): Measure destruction and creation by measuring violence, education, construction, achievements. Hypothesis: destruction/disaster is correlated to violence and low education/achievements, where as construction/creation is correlated with high education/achievement, 
If the hypothesis is true, violence is a feature to predict disaster_mental_state and achievement is a feature to predict disaster_recovery-mental_state
(predicting disaster severity) 

X = [type_of_disaster, length_of_disaster, c_of_disaster, quanity_of_destruction_per_day (violence, loss of something), quanity_of_creation_per_day (accomplishments), physical_symptoms (depression, anxiety, ) ] ; 
y = [disaster_state, nondisaster_state] 
OR
 y = [weak, mild, severe]
Use original disaster features with daily effect features due to past disaster to predict disaster severity and/or current disaster_recovery-mental_state : Way 0: put in all features for predicting disaster severity, and then do cosine similarity to see which features could be decreased to reverse the initial severity of the disaster. 

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 1: Self-evolution through transformation  (misalignment)

MEASURE: measurement of self-evolution (compare past to present) by identifying which cluster one becomes nearer or further away from 
Make up features for different life paths: life path 0 (attributes/features a writer does), life path 1 (attributes/features a data science person does), life path 2 (attributes/features a XXX does). 
OR
Make up features for different personality groups (or turn the Miers Briggs into a predictor using daily-life features): giver/creator (attributes/features of someone who creates new things), receiver (attributes/features of someone who takes - receivers may need psychological therapy to learn how to create do/things in their life and be more empowered/responsible, instead of having others take care of them)
Measure cosine similarity of each feature to know which feature/s to change to make someone change into another group; what to do exactly to change one’s mental state to being empowered/responsible.

SIDE MEASURE (model to stop people from being lost in the cracks/walls): measure the quantity of problems (it is a feature for life-misalignment) for each person. The people who have the most problems are the people who are misaligned. They need to be following a model where key features need to be changed/measured by their actions such that they align themselves with their goals/chosen life path.

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 2: Ironic Importance of debit (misalignment)

MEASURE: identify a measure/feature that quantifies the result of your actions for a task (ie: if you are applying for Data Science jobs, what is a measure/feature that quantifies that your profile is aligned with your desired job? Publicity/marketing/recommendations are a measure/feature from society that quantifies one’s alignment with their desired life goals) 
Monitor LinkedIn job recommendations as a measure/feature that quantifies alignment of society’s information/opinion about my work profile; it is a measure of what society (combination of all the information from web bots and information related to my name/profile) thinks of me (my job, my education, etc). What society thinks of you is what society will give to you for future opportunities.


SIDE MEASURE: try to measure creative advancement on a topic with respect to the number of data sources. 

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 3: Help me with my life

MEASURE: Measure the success of your peers in a group, and predict what one needs to do to obtain similar success with their own credentials. Features are the accomplishments of yourself and peers, y is the job title; do clustering for each job title and measure how similar you are to each job title. 

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 4: Can one be different from their PAST?

MEASURE: look at what films came out about disaster, was there more crime and violence?
Similarity of a film to a person’s life, sensitivity to follow/copy trends - maybe features to use to know if someone will repeat or copy things in the film
(Sensitivity of people to be unconsciously influenced) How much is excessive exposure of disaster “viewing” where one might unconsciously copy disaster in their life ?
How much self-association does one need (films are similar to people's lives), to feel like it applies to your life?


--------------------------------------------------

Observation 5: Rational versus instinctive response in different contexts

MEASURE: find features for measuring rational versus instinctive behavior ; there could be an LLM model that detects rational versus instinctive response for a certain context 

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 6: Encouragement for exaggeration

MEASURE: use text written by societal representation, organizations, and individuals for significant events – measure exaggeration (ask LLM to consider events that occurred and judge if text response was exaggerated, get sentiment of text response). Compare societal exaggeration with societal sentiment. With these simple measures, exaggeration and sentiment, people could measure the impact (change in sentiment) of participation (news, twitter, youtube, etc) in local and global events.

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 7: Discriminatory revenge creates no future

MEASURE [difficult to get the data]: What causes real social improvements? A protest of people yelling and complaining (social event), slow quite systematic constructive improvements (questionnaire responses), or individual change due to responsibility for one’s self/happiness?

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 8: Preciousness of life and context

MEASURE: something measuring erroneous decision making due to confusion about Context and a secondary topic (ie: preciousness of life). If deciders did not know the secondary topic, would they have decided differently using the Context only?

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 9: Perception of reality and the Purpose of life

Yesterday night, violent people burned stores and cars in the street, in a normal middle class areas in France. All I see is violence and people angry in the streets, but no one can even explain why they are so angry. The only response that people give is that :
    the police are violent,    
    there is no guidance for some people’s lives.     

COULD BE REWRITTEN : need to put in: 0. perception, 1.
The first response, the police kill, that people use to justify why they need to destroy everything has been a response that people have said for years, EVEN AFTER proof/facts have been given that show the police DO NOT KILL ON PURPOSE. The statistical rate of death by police is extremely low, the police themselves are statistically hurt MORE than criminals. The police stop violent aggressive people to protect all of society, the police are trained for YEARS AND YEARS to have a certain competence level to even have their job; they follow strict policies of WHEN TO EVEN SHOOT their WEAPON. For years, there has been documentaries on the TELEVISION (ie: enquête criminelle) that show :
0. how the police are trained to do their job,
1. what rules they are following when they arrest someone, the behavior of the person being arrested (usually there are in a poor and disoriented mental state, and the police are actually helping them to get their live ‘back on track’ by them arresting them and showing them how ‘low’ they are.). People who are not arrested are given medical help from the hospital (SAMU), and the people on the show are AFRAID to RECEIVE even MEDICAL HELP

MEASURE: Maybe, I should look at a dataset about police brutality vs criminal brutality and actually calculate the statistics… Knowing the FACTS about how many people die can give perspective and CONTEXT on the situation.
???
The second response, that there is no guidance for people’s lives is NOT TRUE, in my opinion. Not having someone to command you to have a certain life is NORMAL, it means you have FREE WILL to choose the type of life that you deem is fulfilling for yourself.
If one feels like they are victims in life, this implies that they have not chosen a purpose in life; most people choose their career as their life’s purpose, others perhaps a hobby.
I find that people who need someone to tell them exactly what to do in life, are individuals that have not chosen their purpose in life.
AS AN ADULT, realizing that NOT needing someone to COMMAND your life (ie: religion and parents, because they just give you moral lessons/guidelines for how to behave in society) means that:
you are responsible for yourself and your actions. Thus, you can be proud of the things that you accomplish because it was YOU who DID IT. I am proud just to buy groceries at the supermarket because it was ME WHO EARNED THE MONEY to buy those things. My mom had hard times and got free money from the government, and I was happy that she could have something to     eat. But I thought it was TERRIBLE that her FREEDOM to buy things based on HER CHOICES IN LIFE were not enough for her to even be PROUD TO BUY FOOD with the money she EARNED; in some regard I would rather not eat than loose the ability to earn money for myself.
you accept the challenge to live and integrate into society
you are courageous to do and think about things that maybe no one has done or thought about before; people’s lives are always progressing forward so we all have the chance to do unique, and original things. No one life is the same, we all have different experiences, and that gives hope and excitement for future progress and understanding of others.
In my opinion, everyone should be wanting to LIVE THEIR OWN LIVES, it is exciting and a chance to do something new/interesting. But, for those who can not even think of what they like or would want to do with their lives, they need to participate and see if they like those things. And, participation does not mean that you will be accepted, participation means that you do those things for YOURSELF and your happiness. Most people are NEVER accepted in the things that they participate in all their lives, but they keep doing them because they are things that bring them happiness (ie: a sense of accomplishment to be skillful at a task, perceiving the function of a task to be beautiful and wanting to understand more).
Also, for those who can not even think of what they like or would want to do with their lives, the FIRST STEP is to understand oneself; WHY do you feel a certain way? WHY do you respond to situations and emotions in a certain manner?
Answering these basic questions helped me to start making smarter decisions and enabled me to articulate my ideas to other people such that I could better obtain the things that I need in life. Asking questions all the time is so important.

--------------------------------------------------

Long-term goals
Observation 10: Building lasting structures instead of ramasing scraps

Long-term results are achieved by first making a list of long-term goals and then executing short-term plans to minimize the difference between one’s current state and the long-term goals; the process of making the goals list and the short-term actions/plans are called the long-term planning process. The process of long-term planning must be known before correctly understanding how to perform the process of making a long-term goal and then achieving it, the literal words “long-term planning” do not convey how to perform the process of long-term planning [citation].
(How to make long-term goals) [Resources]
(How to make short-term goals)
Short-term plans are concrete actions that bring one closer to future wishes or goals. The short-term planning time-window, the time required to accomplish a task, and the number of tasks to complete dictate success. It is logical that if more tasks are accomplished in a shorter period of time, more success is gained. However, creating “more success” by forcing the completion of many tasks quickly could have detrimental effects on long-term productivity, mental health, and motivation. 
MEASURE: Try to forecast the time needed to complete a task where one can be mentally and physically healthy. Measure the amount of happiness, motivation, sense of accomplishment (positive mental and emotional returns) with respect to completion-time for each task. 
Hypothesis: each person has a threshold for completion-time, such that happiness, motivation, and sense of accomplishment decrease when forced to work too fast.

Everyone has different strengths and weaknesses, and some people will never be able to accomplish a task faster and/or more accurately than other people. 
Not all businesses in the same field operate on the same level of competency, some businesses are leaders and others follow the leaders in the field and/or specialize in a certain area. A business or person with a skill-set would not even exist if they did not have the initial competency to begin a path to study and/or perform the skill; there are many projects, exams, and criteria that people have to fulfill to continue on a path.
Many different businesses exist with different levels of expertise for various reasons, such as: a need for studying the information in a less centralized area to create jobs and/or future workers,

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 11: The lack of value for things

MEASURE : Predict emotional attachment to objects.
Features: product lifespan, ease to make, user satisfaction, risk of product change (time between product updates), the common computer names (abstract or more personal)


--------------------------------------------------

Self-esteem
Observation 12: The need for self rules and regulations

MEASURE: What features in policies allow individuals/organizations to effectively implement long-term solutions.

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 13: Acceptance of choices

MEASURE : correlation of availability of choice, variety of products bought, and self-understanding/self-esteem
Definition of self-understanding, self-esteem, self-responsibility to make features :
Features for measuring self-understanding/self-esteem:
0. Acceptance of your subjective opinion with respect to others subjective opinion
Can make a model to predict self-understanding and/or self-esteem based on a topic.


--------------------------------------------------

Observation 14: Identification of competence

MEASURE: predict the number of features required to be competent for a particular job title 
Label = Ask LLM if a certain cv would be accepted to a certain job post based on similarity 
Search cv and the job post for matching keywords, if the label=1, the keywords are features
Possible features: degree (DS=3, CS_engineering=2, non-related field=1), # of papers, # of repositories (linux, pypi), # of github projects, # of certificate tests passed, # of certificates,  # of linkedin badges, # of cloud platforms known/used (Azure, AWS, GCP), cloud path training completion number, past job description similarity to job post description, # of years working, previous job title similarity to job post title, previous company similarity to job post company



--------------------------------------------------

Lack of rules and regulations
Observation 15: Irresponsible technologies that we all use - losing your life in spam/pub marketing to join causes

MEASURE: Try to measure lack of success (people or companies) due to being poorly aligned with associations. Make up features for different life paths: life path 0 (attributes/features a writer does), life path 1 (attributes/features a data science person does), life path 2 (attributes/features a XXX does). 
Diminish the feature value by adding “noise”, a feature transformation that accounts for wrong associations (diminish the feature values by the incorrect information present) 
Compare prediction of life path with noisy_features and with non-noisy_features : the difference is the lack of success 


--------------------------------------------------

Observation 16: Technology that helps us to be our better selves
MEASURE: if there is more education about how to communicate more effectively, will emotional response (sentement of text) be more neutral

Does neutrality create improved information exchange? Are there cases where not being neutral improves communication and topic understanding?




--------------------------------------------------

Observation 17: The measured influence of one’s family

MEASURE: predict career path based on life exposure experiences
Features: type_of_data_source*exposure_time  = [reading, sport, music ] = [3, 1, 0] 
What is the maximum number of data sources needed for success, before it becomes a disadvantage? 

MEASURE: number of participants (fan presence), over all distraction from the desired topic. Do a lot of people cause distraction from a topic?

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 18: Being the “Best”

MEASURE: the number of successful people who achieved success alone instead of working in successful teams...or something with workplace success. Hypothesis: teams of the “Best people” are more successful than isolated people who are the “Best”.

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 19:  When playing is a Luxury
MEASURE : predict when life becomes banal/stuck (ie: depression)
Features : change in knowledge, repetition of behavior

--------------------------------------------------

Observation 20: Misclassification due to multiple meaning keywords (des faux amis)
MEASURE: to prevent misclassification there needs to be more features considered to separate interest groups in feature space
What is the optimal number of features needed to separate two profiles that use the same keywords for their field?
Classify Data Scientist from Data Specialist
Classify professional artist from general art

--------------------------------------------------

*****(redo) Observation 21: Allow others to have individual success - “Live your Happy Life” *****
There are XXX main reasons why individuals should be vigilant about correcting misalignment and misclassification,
In the event of misalignment and misclassification, individuals may suffer and/or lose time because they need to make additional efforts to correctly align with their desired associations and interests.

% misalignment : Small group is not interested in all the topics of the large group, the small group has overlapping feature space with the large group. Use only key features of interest of the small group to separate the large group from the small group.   
Even Though we are more technologically connected than ever before, one can not always stay directly connected with others due to misaligned interests. Some people intellectually grow faster than others, and the experiences that they create may be too advanced or uninteresting for others. One is likely to achieve greater success if they are aligned with specialized groups of similarly interested people, instead of a large group of people interested in diverse topics; when individuals find their specialized groups the group lets the person go to live their happy life.

% misclassification
