







Data Science Observations in a Chaotic World

How to be more responsible and why it is important







Data Science Observations in a Chaotic World

Jamilah Foucher















Copyright page



























To all the people, systems, and structures that helped me to be an accomplished educated person in the field of Data Science. As I have been taught to succeed with my life path and be responsible for myself, I hope this book helps others to be more aware of themselves and others, and succeed with their chosen life path.



















Interpersonal relationship of how people interact with data and decision making based on the consequences of real-time data interaction. 
“If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of Giants” (Isaac Newton)
Taking responsibility for our own experiences and choices, allows us to use technology responsibly and thus “stand on the shoulders of Giants” such that we can advance without destroying ourselves.










TABLE OF CONTENTS
Gossip, Tragedy, and Disaster
Observation 0: Disaster and Data
    • Summary: disaster may influence people to destroy things. 
    • Data Science can be used to predict how much someone is self-sabotaging one’s self due to exposure to disaster/unfortunate situations; type and severity of the initial disaster, physical symptoms like depression and anxiety coupled with the number of mistakes/”small disasters” that one makes daily, and time to complete tasks can be possible features to predict self-sabotage with respect to an initial trauma. 
Observation 1: Self-evolution through transformation
    • Summary: transitioning from one classification life group to another - “close the door and open another door” to things with more aligned interests. 
    • Data Science can be used to measure self-evolution/progress from one interest to another, so that one can align themselves with people and activities that give them more of that interest; it can recommend when to unsubscribe from a site or newsletter that you no-longer use and recommend things that you currently like to replace them. 
Observation 2: Ironic importance of debit
    • Summary: experiencing a disaster/trauma can cause ‘opportunity debit’, lack of opportunity. ‘Fake it until you make it’ and participate in desired topics until you achieve success; do not focus on negative emotions.  
    • Data Science can be used to measure how far away one is from desired success and/or identify what one needs to do to obtain success.
Observation 3: Your problems are your Secret Gifts
    • Summary: use your problems to find the “secret help” instead of run away from them, decode your problems and find solutions to advance
Observation 4: Can one be different from their PAST?
    • Summary: exposure to past historical disasters can cause people to repeat unfortunate history in the present. Should future generations learn about history using an emotional suffering and personal family view-point, so that past resentment/tragedy does not repeat?
Observation 5: Rational versus instinctive response in different contexts
    • Summary: many people fear and kill insects, because they repeat primal instincts; acting without primal instincts is more aligned with modern behavior. It is illogical to kill insects and other living things, when they can not nor do not want to hurt you. 
Observation 6: Encouragement for exaggeration
    • Summary: society encourages excitement and discussion about exaggerated events and behavior; exaggeration can lead to stereotypes/unfairness, violence, false beliefs and illusory views of reality. It may be beneficial to measure exaggeration to prevent behavior/violence escalation, and help people to have the same level of education/awareness about ideas.    
Observation 7: Discriminatory revenge creates no future
    • Summary: everyone has been discriminated against, deciding whether resentment of discrimination should take over your life is a choice! Realize that people and society are not perfect, everyone makes mistakes and misunderstands things; be willing to constructively explain and educate others of your needs and opinions such that everyone can advance together.
Observation 8: Preciousness of life and context
    • Summary: Many people justify poor behavior because tragedy happens and life is lost, thus people focus on the preciousness of life instead of the context and prevention. 
Observation 9: Perception of reality and the Purpose of life
    • Summary: Everyone perceives reality differently depending on their experience and physiology, certain behaviors are more violent for some people than other people. Feeling  (citation needed) It is possible that feeling like a victim could be correlated with lack of life purpose, if one has a life purpose one must choose constantly to obtain the goals; the definition of a victim is someone who can not choose.

Long-term goals
Observation 10: Building lasting structures instead of ramasing scraps
    • Summary: long-term goals means to make a goals list and short-term planning is the day to day adjustments to reach the goals; short-term plans change or adjust and time to complete a short-term task should be aligned with happiness/motivation instead of optimal rewards from a task. Forced rapid time-limits beyond human ability to complete a task, for optimal rewards, create suboptimal human performance.
Observation 11: The lack of value for things
    • Summary: the importance to recycle/optimally use things instead of buying new things/throwing away things

Self-esteem 
Observation 12: The need for self rules and regulations
    • Summary: when problems happen asking WHY it happened, instead of focusing on WHO did it, may create long-term prevention of problems
Observation 13: Acceptance of choices
    • Summary: the excitement to copy and want to be someone else means you do not like yourself; have self-esteem and personal goals such that you can be inspired by other’s accomplishments and use/modify/incorporate the ideas to help you to achieve your personal goals. It is more constructive and self-empowering to focus on the ideas than the people who accomplish them.
Observation 14: Identification of competence
    • Summary: Ask an objective opinion, like a classification model or LLM, to determine if one is competent enough in a subject; the more criteria for competences means a stricter/specialized/smaller group membership policy

Lack of rules and regulations
Observation 15: Getting lost in spam/pub marketing
    • Summary: Technology has become more and more abstract, such that we do not know the significance/impact on ourselves and others, thus one must constantly correct content or else one may be misclassified in an incorrect digital social group. Misclassification in the wrong digital social group causes diminished chances for success and opportunity, because the group majority guides the information. If you are receiving information that you do not like it means that you are not aligned with your desired content.

Observation 16: Technology that helps us to be our better selves
    • Summary: Natural use of human inspired technology may need rules and regulations for usage like LLMs, because human nature can be primal, encouraging emotional excitement instead of topic centered focus.

Observation 17: The measured influence of one’s family
    • Summary: The interests and activities of the immediate family dictate future success for their children; the more data sources that the family is connected to, the child may have more opportunities for future success. All data sources have high performers, fan presence with data sources should not diminish the content and performance of high performers if everyone wants to succeed.

Observation 18: Being the “Best”
    • Summary: There is a natural circular cycle of gaining experience, from novice, to junior, to expert; all roles learn from the other role, even experts need inexperienced feedback from a novice to gain insights. If a novice is misclassified as an expert a team can not function optimally due to lack of experience. Similarly, a member working in isolation is likely to have less success and life-balance due to limited interaction and resources. Being the “Best” in a team where each member is aligned with their correct skill and takes turns with their individual successes is a highly functional team.

Observation 19: When playing is a Luxury
    • Summary: Enjoying one’s self after basic needs have been satisfied signify that one has the luxury to play. Stalling life advancement creates a risk of unfulfilled hopes and dreams, thus one does not have the luxury to play often. A stalled life also slows down the advancement of the quality of playing, such that the lack of internal and physical growth creates banal repetition of low quality play states. Whereas an advancing life creates continuously increasing heighted experiences of play due to opportunities achieved through life advancement.

Observation 20: Misclassification due to keywords

**** need to say: Misclassification due to keywords is a real expressions in some languages, for example in French the expression "des faux amis" means that one word or expression has double meanings.
    • Summary: Poorly written and spoken ideas can misclassify people in incorrect digital social groups.

Observation 21: Allow others to have individual success - “Live your Happy Life”
    • Summary: Even Though we are more technologically connected than ever before, one can not always stay directly connected with others due to misaligned interests. Some people intellectually grow faster than others, and the experiences that they create may be too advanced or uninteresting for others. One is likely to achieve greater success if they are aligned with specialized groups of similarly interested people, instead of a large group of people interested in diverse topics; when individuals find their specialized groups the group lets the person go to live their happy life.


Self-help activities
[0] Life encouragement phrase/s: how to make long-term goal phrases
    • Summary: Everyone should have life encouragement phrase/s that repeat and reinforce their long-term life goals such that their short-term behavior is constantly working to realize the long-term goals
[1] Me against myself in self-sabotage: what to do when you sabotage your success
    • Summary: Disturbances and distractions happen to everyone and the create self-sabotage, how to try to minimize external distractions and align/focus with your goals to prevent self-sabotage
[2] Basic rules for decision making
    • Summary: Four simple rules to make successful/positive future life choices
[3] Riding the wave of anger: what to do when you are angry
    • Summary: When situations arise that cause anger, it is difficult to be in full-control of one’s thoughts. If one is not in full-control, things that are said and done may be regretted. How to experience, work though, and control states of anger without creating more conflicts and problems in your life
[4] Anxiety, frustration, and depression: what to do when you when you feel these states and do not want to experience them
    • Summary: Unwanted emotional states happen to everyone, but problems can occur when these unwanted emotional states linger or keep occurring. Use positive repetition to reverse unwanted emotional states



















FORWARD
























PREFACE
In a world where technological progress has connected people all over the world, one can observe strengths and weaknesses in others and realize that we all have similar experiences. This self-help book on 22 Data Science case studies discusses common topics ranging from disaster, long-term goals, self-esteem, and lack of technological regulatory rules. Insightful ideas and existing Data Science techniques are discussed as a possible way to solve everyday problems, such that people can be more educated, make better decisions, and live their “happy life”. Five key self-help activities on goal achievement, self-sabotage, decision making, and overcoming unwanted emotions are given so that readers can empower their own lives.






Gossip, Tragedy, and Disaster
Observation 0: Disaster and Data
When one destroys one’s things, meaning self-sabotage, it means that one:
    1. does not want a future. It is very difficult to destroy everything and start over again and catch-up to the current level of modern society; it takes decades or more to build stable structures.
    2. desire nothing except “dirt and ash”, which is all that is left after disaster and destruction. Another parallel of destruction of property, is “returning to nature” in an advanced technological age.
    3. lives in the past because everyone who does not destroy their things are constantly creating and advancing to the future.
    4. becomes less connected to reality due to fear and lack of interest, isolated, and has less access to modern technology
    5. creates limited mental beliefs of what they can and can not do because they do not understand the full range of possible choices that are available in life that could allow them to be happier or have more from life.
Creation and destruction are similar to the Birth and Death cycle in numerical modeling, people who destroy are likely to die-out due to lack and those who create are likely to survive due to growth and improvement.
I have observed that many people who have had disaster or tremendous loss in their life, have anger and resentment for their losses, making violence and destruction justified. When there is loss, it is human nature to repeat destruction in some form (ie: vandalism, abuse, harassment) just by being exposed to the unfortunate situation/s. People exposed to disaster may influence people to destroy things.
Not only is disaster a physical phenomenon, but it has lasting physical and psychological effects. Physical and psychological effects include depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), gastro-intestinal disorders [1].
By understanding which features/factors are involved with disaster, perhaps individual change and self-empowerment can be obtained by simple day-to-day behaviors related to reversing disaster exposure.

MEASURE (Feature Engineering - Citation/Statistics): Measure destruction and creation by measuring violence, education, construction, achievements. Hypothesis: destruction/disaster is correlated to violence and low education/achievements, where as construction/creation is correlated with high education/achievement, 
If the hypothesis is true, violence is a feature to predict disaster_mental_state and achievement is a feature to predict disaster_recovery-mental_state
(predicting disaster severity) X = [type_of_disaster, length_of_disaster, length_of_disaster, quanity_of_destruction_per_day (violence, loss of something), quanity_of_creation_per_day (accomplishments), physical_symptoms (depression, anxiety, ) ] ; 
y = [disaster_state, nondisaster_state] 
OR
 y = [weak, mild, severe]
Use original disaster features with daily effect features due to past disaster to predict disaster severity and/or current disaster_recovery-mental_state : Way 0: put in all features for predicting disaster severity, and then do cosine similarity to see which features could be decreased to reverse the initial severity of the disaster. 

Observation 1: Self-evolution through transformation
We all have unfortunate experiences in our life, it is a choice to transform these experiences into something positive or “run away” from them. “Running away” could include avoidance, distraction from the unfortunate situation by over focusing on something else, or asking someone else to solve the situation for you. Transforming the situation implies understanding the situation (context, cause and effect), and then taking logical steps to change the outcome in a controlled manner. 
The act of transforming unfortunate experiences into positive experience/s consists of:
    • trying to understand the problem using cause-and-effect thinking of actions-behaviors; in Data Science this is called finding key features to understand the system. Live and learn about the problem/s in a way that you test an action, whether it be going a different way at work or learning a new hobby, and then observe the effects in your life. By understanding the cause and effect relationship with one’s problems, one can slowly improve and transform one’s own life condition themselves to make long-lasting change instead of asking for short-term help from others; all problems come from oneself, one’s experiences and perception of the world create the opportunities in their life.  
    • redirecting one’s emotional state despite the current situation. Even if one is experiencing long-term suffering one needs to be constantly self-motivated and focus on at least one positive realistic long-term goal and at least maintain a hopeful emotional state where obtaining the goal is possible.
    • long-term monitoring of cause-and-effect actions-behaviors and synthesizing key information that create better life-situations; in Data Science this is called mlops/devops where a system is monitored and targeted feedback is given to users. Continually synthesizing the observations of action-behavior such that key features/factors for one’s problems are found, is important to change the outcome of the situation with learned feedback. 
By carrying out these three-steps, in closed-loop, one’s character and/or perspective evolves. As a result of character and perspective change due to self transformation, ideas and concepts that were exciting and funny before, may be less exciting and funny because a new view-point and understanding of the consequences with respect to the old view-point were realized. For example, laughing at someone falling due to miscoordination may have been funny before understanding that falling down could happen to anyone and it is a common event that is not surprising or exciting, it is a painful event that requires prevention; once these simple ideas are realized laughing is not interesting and other responses are adopted.


MEASURE: measurement of self-evolution (compare past to present) by identifying which cluster one becomes nearer or further away from 
Make up features for different life paths: life path 0 (attributes/features a writer does), life path 1 (attributes/features a data science person does), life path 2 (attributes/features a XXX does). 
OR
Make up features for different personality groups (or turn the Miers Briggs into a predictor using daily-life features): giver/creator (attributes/features of someone who creates new things), receiver (attributes/features of someone who takes - receivers may need psychological therapy to learn how to create do/things in their life and be more empowered/responsible, instead of having others take care of them)
Measure cosine similarity of each feature to know which feature/s to change to make someone change into another group; what to do exactly to change one’s mental state to being empowered/responsible.

// did not put
People invite themselves to “private spaces” for help or relief (ie: refugees escaping to another country, a friend/family member acting like an emotional vampire with their loved ones in order to mentally uplift themselves) because they lack the intention to transform themselves. They are escaping/”running away” from a life that they created unintentionally, that may be boring, unsafe, or financially unsustainable; they did not create goals for themselves to create and transform themselves in society, and they did not tell others around them what they needed such that they could accomplish the goals. People are better off following their own life path and interests in their own “space”, instead of following someone else’s life path, by transforming their things into something that they like and is socially sustainable; all life paths lead to wealth, excitement, and happiness when people are responsible for themselves.
People who go to “private spaces” where they are not ready for the information, such as a child in a university setting: become too excited, they misuse the information and material, and prevent other people from joining correctly, and prevent other people who are already in the space from using their things. Uninvited people create unintended chaos because of their lack of respect, due to inexperience and value of the information, for the “private space”. Uninvited people are not invited for a reason, their interests and intentions are not aligned with the information, topics, or intentions of the space.
It is not rude to say that people are uninvited or have dissimilar intentions, because misalignment of interests create self-destruction where constant physical problems are the symptoms showing that they are misaligned; it is helpful to the person that is misaligned to know that their current actions and behavior (state) are not conducive for where they wish to be (mental embodiment of a persona without actions and intentions to obtain the skills) or are (having actions and behavior that are incorrect for the physical location). Misalignment creates suffering in a technological age where advancement in society is controlled by fulfillment of criteria; this includes suffering caused by being in a misaligned situation where normal efforts are never deemed to be sufficient for integration into society and/or advancement.
SIDE MEASURE (model to stop people from being lost in the cracks/walls): measure the quantity of problems (it is a feature for life-misalignment) for each person. The people who have the most problems are the people who are misaligned. They need to be following a model where key features need to be changed/measured by their actions such that they align themselves with their goals/chosen life path.




Observation 2: Ironic Importance of debit
Debit, lack of something, makes one realize the available choices that they can make. Debit is an adjective that has a connotation associated with money and finance, but debit could be applied to any subject such as opportunity or creativity.
“Opportunity debit”, scarcity of opportunities, is a common phenomenon that happens to everyone. It generally means that one is not surrounding themselves with people that have the same expectations and knowledge as them; there is misalignment of intention and interest. The best way to solve opportunity debit is to participate in events and activities that align with the desired expectations of the opportunity. For example, if one wants to be a Data Scientist, participate in Data Science blogs, classes, group analysis sites like Kaggle, online conferences, bootcamps if you are lucky, and anything related to the subject of Data Science.
The more one participates with the topic of the opportunity that is desired, the more likely the opportunity is possible. One can use the expression ‘Fake it until you make it’ because one is performing the actions and intentions to obtain the skills for the desired opportunity.
The least effective way to solve “opportunity debit” is to focus on the disaster, hate of lack, and negative emotions for not being accepted for things that are desired in life. People who have already been accepted in the things that you want to do are happy and they do not want to be around sad and negative people, they just want to do the activity like you. It is not effective to “show up to the door” of a group of people who you want to join in a negative, hateful, and angry state. People will just focus on the emotions and not even focus on the activity (ie: job, etc). Carrying around hateful negative emotions makes one: not lead a normal life, have limited social and financial opportunities, not have a future to look forward to living, not have long-term happiness.


MEASURE: identify a measure/feature that quantifies the result of your actions for a task (ie: if you are applying for Data Science jobs, what is a measure/feature that quantifies that your profile is aligned with your desired job? Publicity/marketing/recommendations are a measure/feature from society that quantifies one’s alignment with their desired life goals) 
Monitor LinkedIn job recommendations as a measure/feature that quantifies alignment of society’s information/opinion about my work profile; it is a measure of what society (combination of all the information from web bots and information related to my name/profile) thinks of me (my job, my education, etc). What society thinks of you is what society will give to you for future opportunities.


Similar to “opportunity debit‘, “creativity debit” is considered to be a new problem of the 21st century [citation]. “Creativity debit” is the lack of original ideas to create new processes and products. In Data Science, many ideas and processes are recycled ideas from existing professional fields. Data Science champions the behavior of not having “creativity debit”. A simple way to be creative with one’s own things is to incorporate ideas from a different data source/activity. Taking a different route from work, eating at a new restaurant, or learning a new hobby are all simple ways to be more creative in one’s own life.
Data Science incorporates ideas from many different data sources, while maintaining the core goal of quantifying real-life while giving real-time feedback.  New and exciting ideas are likely to be created because the different fields/data sources are able to advance faster thanks to Data Science contributions, thus creating a closed-loop process of creativity.


SIDE MEASURE: try to measure creative advancement on a topic with respect to the number of data sources. 
In summary, debit/scarcity is an important indicator that shows which self-attributes could use improvement. Instead of being negative, angry, sad, and envious of others for self-lack, debit can be used to empower long-term change and success if it is investigated step-by-step in a Data Scientific manner. 

Debit/Lack is an upward spiral (small ), meaning that when one takes responsibility to improve their life they get less lack in improved areas, but more lack in new areas that need to be learned. Mismanagement or poor ability to learn these new areas, result in another cycle of problems and lack. Therefore, it is constructive to constantly be aware of new progress and current information, such that optimal decision making can be made to solve the new problems with minimal failure.
Debit is important and for a reason, it means that one tried or is trying to be responsible in improving themselves and others around them but they were or have not been able to make/obtain the best choices; some residual failure exists due to lack of knowledge and, thus, less good decision making.

Having a debit implies that a risk was taken, it is rare to impossible to make zero failures. Risk is the possibility of not achieving something despite making efforts to accomplish it. There are many different types of risks: obtaining an education and/or credentials to become socially and economically established in society, creating knowledge and/or products for financial gain, improving/positively transforming one’s self and/or others around them. To obtain an education/degree with a remaining student loan debit means that a risk was taken where optimal financial outcomes were not possible, however work was being accomplished and personal advancement was obtained.

Responsibility and self-transformation are coupled with debit because change can not be made without risk taking; positive change is difficult to implement and almost impossible to achieve without failure. It is normal to have debit and unachieved consequences for: life advancement and planning endeavors, and entrepreneurial endeavors.
What debit/lack do you have? And how can you minimize the debit by doing strategic daily actions? Happy debit reduction!

// Make variable visible
      var list_var = ["observation2_part0", "observation2_part1", "observation2_part2", "observation2_part3", "observation2_part4", "observation2_part5", "promptbox", "observation2_part6", "observation2_part7", "observation2_character_trait", "observation2_part8", "observation2_part9", "observation2_number_of_calendar_events", "observation2_part10", "observation2_part11", "observation2_part12", "observation2_part13", "observation2_part14", "observation2_apikey", "observation2_part15", "observation2_part16", "observation2_outData_calendar", "observation2_part18","observation2_part19"]

      for (var i=0; i<list_var.length; i++) {
          //this[list_var[i]] = document.getElementById(list_var[i]);
          document.getElementById(list_var[i]).style.display = "block";
          document.getElementById(list_var[i]).className ='show';
      }

var prompt_str = `Make a schedule with {number_of_calendar_events} items in sequential order for the 
next {time_length} to increase {character_trait}. List each item using 
the least number of words using a numbered list.`

observation2_part0, observation2_part1, observation2_part2
observation2_part3
observation2_part4
observation2_part5
promptbox
observation2_part6
observation2_part7
observation2_character_trait
observation2_part8
observation2_part9
observation2_number_of_calendar_events
observation2_part10
observation2_part11
observation2_time_length
observation2_part13
observation2_part14
observation2_apikey
observation2_part15
observation2_part16
observation2_outData_calendar
observation2_part18
observation2_part19



observation2_part10
observation2_part13 - Desired number of assignments/
observation2_part16 - Desired time-period
observation2_part19 - Enter OpenAI key
observation2_part21 - calendar outputData



Observation 3: Help me with my life
Many people ask other people to help them with their life, directly and indirectly. However, when does asking for help render one too dependent on others, where they do not take personal responsibility for their proper life? Many people do not realize that they are “helped” all the time with their life, simply by the fact that they exist and participate in life activities like getting an education. All the problems in their life are secret ways for them to have help, created with their “own hands”. Most people “run away” from the problems in their life and GIVE them to OTHER PEOPLE instead of embarrassing them and unraveling them such that they can find the “secret help”.
If you can not find a job, it is “secret help” to tell you that you are doing something wrong at that time. Wrong does not mean good or bad, is just means that there is a conflict. One needs to follow the steps to understand what they should do correctly, in order to obtain the things that they need and want in life. Brainstorming, reading/watching many sources of information, learning new things, and practicing everyday is necessary to find the “secret help” in one’s problems.
I personally do not like to write about myself, but I could not find a job for years despite having a solid education in a Data Science related-field and many short-term internships and postdoctorates using Data Science tools. As someone who strongly values education, I immediately thought that the problem was my lack of education in the field so I started taking training courses, participating in any online activities related to Data Science, I read Data Science blogs and even started my own Data Science code blog, and much more. With every new activity/choice that I COMPLETED with respect to improving my Data Science profile, a new activity/door appeared on the blogs or I found it searching for more and more advanced topics. Despite the fact that I still can not find a job even though I apply to jobs weekly, which is a form of asking for “help” in a respectable manner of accepted service, I believe that I am one of the best versions of myself that I could be because I take responsibility for my situation and constantly try to improve the things in my life that have value for future success. If I had “ran away”, complained, or became depressed about the situation I would have a lot less in my life, with or without a job.
Additionally, I think it is important to use one’s own things present in their life, instead of enviously wishing that you had the accomplishments and things that peers, friends, and family have. The fact that one has peers, friends, and family that are successful just means that you have the potential to accomplish similar things with your own things and opportunities in your own life. Social media sites like LinkedIn and Facebook measure one’s potential for success based on the success of their peers, friends, and family. When peers, friends, or family accomplish success the marketing of the social media site often automatically contacts their social network to notify others that they could have more potential for success too. This form of marketing biases successful people to have more friends, and less successful people to have less friends; it encourages comparing one’s self with other people, strong focus on the successful person’s life, and often generates jealousy, negative judgment, hatred, and envy of the successful person instead of motivating others to fulfill their potential. One’s lack of success with using their opportunities does give them the liberty to take the things and opportunities of more successful peers, friends, and family by unconsciously wishing for their lack of success. One should use the success of others to motivate themselves to utilize their own resources more efficiently such that they can equally obtain success too. If you have university peers that are Data Scientist, but you are having a hard time becoming a confirmed Data Scientist, it just means that you have the potential to be a Data Scientist and you need to use your own resources more efficiently. It does not mean that you should wish misfortune on your Data Science peers, and then contact them such that you can copy everything that they did to obtain the title yourself. Unraveling the “secret help” from your life problems is performing the correct actions for your life path to advance yourself. Peer success provides a proven measure that you can accomplish the same success, and it gives guidance for what activities to engage in; the experience of doing the same activity (learning, reflection) will be different for each person because each person is different but the competence outcome will be similar.


MEASURE: Measure the success of your peers in a group, and predict what one needs to do to obtain similar success with their own credentials. Features are the accomplishments of yourself and peers, y is the job title; do clustering for each job title and measure how similar you are to each job title. 
Problems are “secret help” waiting for people to unravel them and find the treasures inside, and this is the same principle of Data Science and why people pay so much money for Data Scientists to unravel the problems with science one data sample at a time.




Observation 4: Can one be different from their PAST?
Things that one has learned, seen, and experienced are things that repeat in one’s life. One can not do or even think of doing something if one has not been exposed to it in some way. 
People who have past family histories of disaster and atrocity, like war and slavery, tell stories of the horrible events that happened to their children. It is positive to teach future generations about past history such that better future decision making can be made. And, it is also positive to understand one’s ancestry, and know where one comes from. However, there is a fine line where “history telling” of disaster becomes destructive. Children who are indoctrinated about past disasters are going to unconsciously recreate details about the disaster situation in their life, through unconscious thinking processes connected to memory. It is more likely that a child that was told family stories about slavery or war injustices is going to focus on injustices in their life, than a child that was not told these stories.
Watching films that realize historical disaster events, cultural and racial, may also have effects on perception of one’s treatment in their real-life. It is easier to repeat what was seen, said, heard, and experienced, than interpreting/analyzing the significance of what was observed without any direct connection to their life. Similar to visiting a museum or art exhibition, one does not directly correlate their real-life with the objects observed. Museum observers typically interpret and analyze the significance of the events and objects, but film observers often embody the events and stories that are told, copying the events that happened in films and/or stories in real-life in a certain manner.
It is more constructive to watch a film as entertainment with no direct implication to one’s life, than to associate one’s life with the injustices and events in a film. Unconsciously copying and recreating past historical disasters, due to excessive exposure and lack of abstract interpretation, may be linked to depression, misperception of reality, and social-economic dysfunction. 

MEASURE: look at what films came out about disaster, was there more crime and violence?
Similarity of a film to a person’s life, sensitivity to follow/copy trends - maybe features to use to know if someone will repeat or copy things in the film
(Sensitivity of people to be unconsciously influenced) How much is excessive exposure of disaster “viewing” where one might unconsciously copy disaster in their life ?
How much self-association does one need (films are similar to people's lives), to feel like it applies to your life?
In summary, in my opinion, if one can not clearly dissociate historical events and/or entertainment from their current life circumstances, one should be encouraged to adopt a perspective like a museum observer where the events and objects are not directly related to their life. More background information, from varying view-points, about the events and contents of films or “history stories” may help sensitive people who are influenced by what they experience be less influenced to unconsciously copy. For example, people who read a book about an event/story and then watch a film about the event/story, have a more analytical view point beyond the scope of the storyline. Analyzing the contents of the events allows one to have an objective viewpoint, without comparing one’s life to a film, and appreciate the creativity and intention of the filmmakers.





Observation 5: Rational versus instinctive response in different contexts
There is fear of living things that move that we do not understand because we can not predict their behavior; it is an instinctive concept that an entity that can take action has the potential to do harm. Many people are afraid of insects, snakes, animals, and even people because of unfamiliarity. Fear can cause people to respond in irrational and destructive ways. For example, instead of capturing an insect, snake, or rat and letting it free outside, the natural instinct is to kill it before it irrationally “jumps on you”, signifying that it “kills you”. These irrational fear crises, caused by insignificant and helpless things are usually followed by feelings of sadness because we know that it was unnecessary. Instinctive patterns that were important before for human survival, like “killing it before it kills you”, may be considered irrational and cruel due to modernisation and control of the environment. In order to be rational, many people adopt a strategy of learning what insects, animals, and humans are dangerous, and they only harm dangerous insects, animals, and humans that are dangerous to human life. 
For another rational perspective, targeting dangerous individual creature behavior is not enough for ecosystem safety because there are entire species of living creatures that can cause chaos and harm if they are not controlled. For example, a fly generally can not harm you but they do not respect different areas and can contaminate food with dangerous bacteria and/or viruses, causing sickness. Similarly, mosquitos cause widespread disease like malaria. 
Living together in a shared and semi-controlled environment, an ecosystem with different levels of intelligent life, is not completely free of danger. The more that we control things in our environment we need to be more observant, rational, and considerate of different contexts; behavior in one environment may be positive but behavior in another environment may be dangerous and negative. 

MEASURE: find features for measuring rational versus instinctive behavior ; there could be an LLM model that detects rational versus instinctive response for a certain context 
It is rational response behavior to consider each situation case-by-case for each ecosystem. 





Observation 6: Encouragement for exaggeration
Society encourages excitement and exaggeration of behavior because of our media driven culture.
We live in a world where ‘the story’ in the media that is most exciting, meaning that participation is maximized, is deemed a success for publicity.
However could tragedy and disaster be minimized if society did not encourage excitement, exaggeration, and gossip? From a global viewpoint, social exaggeration may cause groups of the population to live in their own imaginary worlds, created by past history and reinforce stereotypes. Societal exaggeration may be a slow, long-term factor/feature that may lead to long-term behavior (aggression, violence, happiness).
A measure that quantifies societal, organizational, and individual exaggeration could be helpful for society to have better CONTEXT and awareness of their actions with respect to others. It could be beneficial to both people who do not exaggerate and those whom do.
To prevent the ‘cry wolf syndrome’, where the things that exaggerators say are not believed by other people, an exaggeration measure that everyone can trust could help to prevent tragedy for people who lie/exaggerate often; people would believe an exaggerator when they told the truth. An exaggeration measure could also be therapeutic feedback for people who do not know when their behavior could harm others or themselves.

MEASURE: use text written by societal representation, organizations, and individuals for significant events – measure exaggeration (ask LLM to consider events that occurred and judge if text response was exaggerated, get sentiment of text response). Compare societal exaggeration with societal sentiment. With these simple measures, exaggeration and sentiment, people could measure the impact (change in sentiment) of participation (news, twitter, youtube, etc) in local and global events.

It is true that from one perspective, holding people accountable for what they say by measuring exaggeration could be seen as a limit to freedom, however it depends on how people judge individuals who exaggerate. Punishing exaggerators would limit freedom, but being aware of who is exaggerating could give people more liberty to choose when they have the LUXURY to participate in exaggeration, and be conscious of their choice/s without harming their personal interests because information is false.
“The things that people say and think have an enormous impact on themselves and others around them, and we have no true feedback measure to understand the repercussions of what we are doing to ourselves and each other.”





Observation 7: Discriminatory revenge creates no future
Everyone has been discriminated against, whether it be caused by sex, skin color, hair color, social-economic status, education level, etc.
In my opinion, discriminatory events happen due to many different factors, but the most logical reason for discrimination is to maintain the function of an existing structure. Successful structures have a limited number of participatory spots, not everyone can do the same task in the world nor can everyone work at the same company. If a large number of people worked for the same company it would then be called a “country”, and even a country needs workers to have diverse working skills or else everyone would starve and have nowhere to live or nothing to wear. Discrimination exists because there needs to be rules for organizing people into categories such that existing social-economic structures can continue to function.
Discrimination is as “good” and “bad” as the rules/criteria that people create to organize people into categories such that functional structures can thrive (ie: gain economic wealth). In the past, people decided on different participatory selection criteria that we now understand to be in-factual and unfair, such as appearance and family history. Without considering education and environment (home-life, neighbors, access to healthcare, disease-free), it is logical that someone with different colored skin can be taught and trained to do the same task. Similarly, if one’s parents were less educated does not imply that their children can not be educated.
Participatory selection criteria for everything in life has become more and more fair with continued research, technological measures, and educational advancement. Education (ability to read, write, and think logically) is used as standard criteria for selecting individuals for employment; education has been made a forced criteria for all children, all over the world, such that everyone has a fair chance for participating in society with a chosen role.
Statistics show that people are more educated and have more access to health and happiness today, than in the past. It is a mystery to me, why people complain about past injustices and discriminatory criteria when functional structures are trying to make participatory societal criteria even more fair and just. All people have to do is select a few activities that they are interested in performing for their life, and educate themselves with the guidance of societal structures that are already put in place. If people find that certain existing societal steps/activities are unjust, they can give constructive feedback directly to societal structures for why the step/activity was unjust, while being proactive to continue despite the difficulty. Constructive feedback, such as letters and questionnaires, are constantly used to improve existing societal structures. And, no one should expect that existing processes are perfect, decision making and humanity are evolving and improving constantly because we are imperfect. The constructive feedback that we give today will take time to implement, and these fair structures will be in place for the next generations; one must keep working through the imperfection in order for the future to be more fair, just like our ancestors did for us. We are all “...standing on the shoulders of Giants” (Isaac Newton) because the people before us accepted imperfection, and were motivated to improve what they had.
From logical deduction, people who complain about injustices assume that societal structures should be perfect, they expect perfection of those around them before they are willing to work. Nothing will ever be perfect, life implies imperfection and improvement; people who expect perfection before working will not work as hard and they will perceive more experiences as negative, thus leading to a mindset of “No Future”/injustice. Working through the imperfection does not mean that one has a horrible life, it just means that one needs to be active and responsible for themselves and the things that they are doing. The things that they may be asked to participate in may not be 100 percent correct, so one needs to adapt and be motivated to make the activities function successfully instead of complaining about the problems.

MEASURE [difficult to get the data]: What causes real social improvements? A protest of people yelling and complaining (social event), slow quite systematic constructive improvements (questionnaire responses), or individual change due to responsibility for one’s self/happiness?





Observation 8: Preciousness of life and context
One can feel the presence, anger, frustration, and hate of the general environment. People’s behavior, driven by their underlying thoughts, cause the environment to feel positive or negative. When the environment feels violent, there is an expectation of something, usually improvements in their life situation without clearly knowing what their choices are; people just want FAST HELP from somewhere without taking responsibility for the decisions that they made or acceptance of their situation. Some people are given more difficult lives to live than others, sometimes even if one makes all the decisions correctly they are still treated poorly in their life. I think there are a lot of people that have lives like this, so in this case just be active of the things that you can do in your life, take responsibility of your life situation, and focus on the cause of your problems. Life is hard and life is what you make it.
By watching the news everyday, I see people creating more problems than fixing the problems by trying to “be kind and understanding”. There is confusion about the preciousness of life and the context. For example, in a recent situation with a man that was killed by the police, people focused on death and the preciousness of life WITHOUT thinking about why he was even in that situation (the CONTEXT). Everyday, we all practice ‘doing the things we want to become’. And, the man did things that put himself in that dangerous situation; the police keep societal order and they are punished severely if they are not just or correct. By people saying the man’s death is ‘shocking and horrible’ means that everyone is focusing too much on the ‘preciousness of life’ than the things he did in his life that caused those things to happen. It means that people are not taking responsibility for the things that the man did to put himself in that situation.
It seems logical that if people focused on and said things about the root problem (why he was there, why he did not act calm, why did he not talk to people normally, why did he not take responsibility for the things that he did instead of running away), then people would have more CONTEXT and not respond violently. By focusing on the root problem, it could also help everyone who is living very challenging lives to focus on their root problems, instead of just being angry and DESTROYING THINGS because ‘life sucks in their opinion’.
I personally do not participate in things that I disagree with, saying you ACCEPT/SUPPORT irresponsible situations means you AGREE WITH/SUPPORT the things (violence, running away from problems instead of facing them). And, if you ACCEPT/SUPPORT irresponsible situations you get MORE OF THEM ALL THE TIME. The things that you ACCEPT/SUPPORT are the THINGS IN YOUR LIFE. It seems logical that TALKING OUT your problems neutrally and having others LISTEN WITH NO JUDGMENT and honest desire to solve them, may be a good way to solve problems.
The man unfortunately died because he was irresponsible. The people on the illegal boat all died because they and the people who let them on the boat were irresponsible; people normally do not get on transportation that is not approved to be safe. People who see these horrible things, that are removed from the situation, just think it was a tragedy instead of looking at the ROOT CAUSE and the CONTEXT. Why do all these tragedies happen?

MEASURE: something measuring erroneous decision making due to confusion about Context and a secondary topic (ie: preciousness of life). If deciders did not know the secondary topic, would they have decided differently using the Context only?





Observation 9: Perception of reality and the Purpose of life
Yesterday night, violent people burned stores and cars in the street, in a normal middle class areas in France. All I see is violence and people angry in the streets, but no one can even explain why they are so angry. The only response that people give is that :
    the police are violent,    
    there is no guidance for some people’s lives.     

COULD BE REWRITTEN : need to put in: 0. perception, 1.
The first response, the police kill, that people use to justify why they need to destroy everything has been a response that people have said for years, EVEN AFTER proof/facts have been given that show the police DO NOT KILL ON PURPOSE. The statistical rate of death by police is extremely low, the police themselves are statistically hurt MORE than criminals. The police stop violent aggressive people to protect all of society, the police are trained for YEARS AND YEARS to have a certain competence level to even have their job; they follow strict policies of WHEN TO EVEN SHOOT their WEAPON. For years, there has been documentaries on the TELEVISION (ie: enquête criminelle) that show :
0. how the police are trained to do their job,
1. what rules they are following when they arrest someone, the behavior of the person being arrested (usually there are in a poor and disoriented mental state, and the police are actually helping them to get their live ‘back on track’ by them arresting them and showing them how ‘low’ they are.). People who are not arrested are given medical help from the hospital (SAMU), and the people on the show are AFRAID to RECEIVE even MEDICAL HELP

MEASURE: Maybe, I should look at a dataset about police brutality vs criminal brutality and actually calculate the statistics… Knowing the FACTS about how many people die can give perspective and CONTEXT on the situation.
???
The second response, that there is no guidance for people’s lives is NOT TRUE, in my opinion. Not having someone to command you to have a certain life is NORMAL, it means you have FREE WILL to choose the type of life that you deem is fulfilling for yourself.
If one feels like they are victims in life, this implies that they have not chosen a purpose in life; most people choose their career as their life’s purpose, others perhaps a hobby.
I find that people who need someone to tell them exactly what to do in life, are individuals that have not chosen their purpose in life.
AS AN ADULT, realizing that NOT needing someone to COMMAND your life (ie: religion and parents, because they just give you moral lessons/guidelines for how to behave in society) means that:
    1. you are responsible for yourself and your actions. Thus, you can be proud of the things that you accomplish because it was YOU who DID IT. I am proud just to buy groceries at the supermarket because it was ME WHO EARNED THE MONEY to buy those things. My mom had hard times and got free money from the government, and I was happy that she could have something to     eat. But I thought it was TERRIBLE that her FREEDOM to buy things based on HER CHOICES IN LIFE were not enough for her to even be PROUD TO BUY FOOD with the money she EARNED; in some regard I would rather not eat than loose the ability to earn money for myself.
    2. you accept the challenge to live and integrate into society
    3. you are courageous to do and think about things that maybe no one has done or thought about before; people’s lives are always progressing forward so we all have the chance to do unique, and original things. No one life is the same, we all have different experiences, and that gives hope and excitement for future progress and understanding of others.
In my opinion, everyone should be wanting to LIVE THEIR OWN LIVES, it is exciting and a chance to do something new/interesting. But, for those who can not even think of what they like or would want to do with their lives, they need to participate and see if they like those things. And, participation does not mean that you will be accepted, participation means that you do those things for YOURSELF and your happiness. Most people are NEVER accepted in the things that they participate in all their lives, but they keep doing them because they are things that bring them happiness (ie: a sense of accomplishment to be skillful at a task, perceiving the function of a task to be beautiful and wanting to understand more).
Also, for those who can not even think of what they like or would want to do with their lives, the FIRST STEP is to understand oneself; WHY do you feel a certain way? WHY do you respond to situations and emotions in a certain manner?
Answering these basic questions helped me to start making smarter decisions and enabled me to articulate my ideas to other people such that I could better obtain the things that I need in life. Asking questions all the time is so important.





Long-term goals
Observation 10: Building lasting structures instead of ramasing scraps
Long-term results are achieved by first making a list of long-term goals and then executing short-term plans to minimize the difference between one’s current state and the long-term goals; the process of making the goals list and the short-term actions/plans are called the long-term planning process. The process of long-term planning must be known before correctly understanding how to perform the process of making a long-term goal and then achieving it, the literal words “long-term planning” do not convey how to perform the process of long-term planning [citation].
(How to make long-term goals) [Resources]
(How to make short-term goals)
Short-term plans are concrete actions that bring one closer to future wishes or goals. The short-term planning time-window, the time required to accomplish a task, and the number of tasks to complete dictate success. It is logical that if more tasks are accomplished in a shorter period of time, more success is gained. However, creating “more success” by forcing the completion of many tasks quickly could have detrimental effects on long-term productivity, mental health, and motivation. 
MEASURE: Try to forecast the time needed to complete a task where one can be mentally and physically healthy. Measure the amount of happiness, motivation, sense of accomplishment (positive mental and emotional returns) with respect to completion-time for each task. 
Hypothesis: each person has a threshold for completion-time, such that happiness, motivation, and sense of accomplishment decrease when forced to work too fast.

Everyone has different strengths and weaknesses, and some people will never be able to accomplish a task faster and/or more accurately than other people. 
Not all businesses in the same field operate on the same level of competency, some businesses are leaders and others follow the leaders in the field and/or specialize in a certain area. A business or person with a skill-set would not even exist if they did not have the initial competency to begin a path to study and/or perform the skill; there are many projects, exams, and criteria that people have to fulfill to continue on a path.
Many different businesses exist with different levels of expertise for various reasons, such as: a need for studying the information in a less centralized area to create jobs and/or future workers.



Observation 11: The lack of value for things
As physical products, both technological and non-technological, become more commonplace people appear to be forgetting to care for their things and/or manufacturers make products that have a fixed product lifespan. It is normal to buy clothes one day and then throw them away after a few usages. Similarly, there are clothing programs that allow customers to rent clothes and send them back for different clothes every month. In many cases, when a product breaks we often feel relieved or happy because there is an opportunity to buy the most recent product version. When did we loose emotional attachment to our objects?
Similarly, the recent changes in Data Science force Data Analysts (ie: Data Analysts, Data Scientists, Data Engineers, etc) to switch between different programming languages and environments. It is commonplace to make several temporary virtual machines for different computations, when in the past people cherished a single personalized work computational environment. One could perceive one's own pc as a "walkup workstation" that does not belong to them because the environment and information needs to constantly change. The need to switch between many different temporary environments that evolve quickly due to combined data from different data sources, may make one feel less emotionally connected to the tools (ie: PC, language, etc) because they are temporary structures. Human nature is to not become emotionally attached to something that may change. In many cases it may be emotionally healthy to put ownership distance between one's quickly evolving objects and one's self, if change is difficult. Ownership distance implies adopting a mindset that the objects will change and can be lost, preserving a memorable copy of the object like a backup file or photo may help.

MEASURE : Predict emotional attachment to objects.
Features: product lifespan, ease to make, user satisfaction, risk of product change (time between product updates), the common computer names (abstract or more personal)
Did people in the past have a stronger emotional attachment for their things than they do today, simply by the fact that objects were less ephemeral?




Self-esteem
Observation 12: The need for self rules and regulations 
Asking who is to blame implies that one does not want to take responsibility for their action. The focus is on “who did it” instead of “why it happened” and how to prevent it from happening again. Focusing on the “who” does not solve the problem, nor does it create short-term planning to achieve long-term goals such that the problem does not occur. Focusing on the ”who” is a common default because it allows for the people involved to have a short-term solution and a sense of closure, such as payment for repairs, apologies, etc, but true closure is actually preventing the problems from reoccuring.
Most people are not interested in short-term solutions and desire long-term solutions because prevention allows for future security; security is knowing that similar disasters/problems will not occur again. In Data Science, people look for the source of the problem and create organized workflows that prevent problems from occurring again such that long-term goals and short-term planning can establish long-term solutions. An effective workflow has steps and checks, using current and predicted information, that notify and/or correct problems before they even occur.

MEASURE: What features in policies allow individuals/organizations to effectively implement long-term solutions.
The goal of this analysis is to show what people do that causes them to have less problems. Some people’s lives are much simpler and easier than other people’s lives, simply by the fact that they live by certain rules and regulations that prevent problems from even occurring. A common phrase that I have encountered when one’s rules and regulations for life, also called personal boundaries, were less optimal is “why is it so hard?”. Less optimal life rules and regulations include: 
    • not having a self-created opinion on topics related to one’s life and/or goals; copying other people’s opinions make one less likely to be consistent and enforce the ideas in different contexts,
    • not accepting that one’s or other people’s opinions can change with experience and knowledge,
    • not emotionally detaching from other people such that one can neutrally express one’s needs, desires, and opinions, 
    • not having a logical neutral thought-process, and 
    • not being able to control one’s emotional state.
If these self rules are not developed, individuals think of themselves as victims because other people follow their agenda without knowing how the individuals want to be treated in the environment, as the individuals themselves do not even know how they wish to be treated and interact with others.  

Observation 13: Acceptance of choices
As technology and advancement improve, there are more options to choose from. More choice means more diversity in behaving, thinking, and living ; having more choice also fosters acceptance, encourages differences and responsibility.
% 0) choice to copy or not
To choose something makes one more or less similar to someone else. One's intentions for choosing something makes the choice more or less self-responsible.
If choice is so widely encouraged, why is there a need to embody the choices of someone else in order to feel accepted and part of a group? Society gives people more choice, but social acceptance rules encourage people to only follow the choices of people who are socially accepted. "High-school like" behavior, where large numbers of people choose the same things and embody a certain persona is commonplace for many trendy topics and/or communities. For example, copying influencer and/or YouTube personality behavior and/or appearance is considered normal. However, some people do not want to be someone else, and they are less well regarded.
% What it means to copy or choose an already created lifepath
In my opinion, desire/acceptance of another person's/organization's personna means less self-reflection and unconscious rejection of one's existing personality and behavior on a certain level. Copying one's life after someone else can also imply inability to discern which attributes are attractive and desirable in the other person, such that one can develop those attributes within themselves using their own experiences. This implies a lack of self-understanding (ie: personal goals). Someone who is actively participating in their life needs to know one's self (ie: personality, competence, goals) and analyze/interpret new information with respect to their existing current state. The analysis process of one's self with new information is the step that encourages creativity. Copying and direct adoption of a persona and/or information avoids self-reflection and/or adaptation of current information and ideas.
% constructive opinion
It is self-responsible to know why one wants to copy a trend, how it will help them grow individually, and how it will help them obtain an already set future goal. It may be more constructive to be motivated by the accomplishments of others, and then try/do the endeavors that they did with focus on one's own life, not the other person's life.

MEASURE : correlation of availability of choice, variety of products bought, and self-understanding/self-esteem
Definition of self-understanding, self-esteem, self-responsibility to make features :
Features for measuring self-understanding/self-esteem:
0. Acceptance of your subjective opinion with respect to others subjective opinion
Can make a model to predict self-understanding and/or self-esteem based on a topic.
One's life is worth living even if one is unable to precisely copy and/or embody a persona, self-acceptance and acceptance can allow for one's personality to be enough.




Observation 14: Identification of competence
When observing advertised job announcements for the field of Data Science there appear to be two types of job posts: jobs that ask for highly specialized candidates to work in a small group, and jobs that welcome a less specialized larger group of candidates with varied backgrounds and skill levels. One would think that a larger group with diverse interests is likely to be unreliable for selecting skill competence, however in many situations companies recruit diversified individuals with the intention to train them for specific tasks. 
Depending on the position, a list of skills are needed to be considered competent. If the position is difficult and requires technical and organizational abilities, the needed criteria quantity to demonstrate competence is likely to be longer than a less challenging position.
Companies dictate what criteria quantity is necessary such that they find both competent and reliable candidates, despite having varying projects that may require knowledge of numerous skills. A reliable candidate is someone that can perform the required job tasks and thus have the ability to retain the same job for a long-period of time; a long-term competent employee.  A competent, and thus reliable candidate, is advantageous because hiring and firing employees that can not complete tasks is a waste of resources including: time, material, and human motivation/synergy. 
From a candidate perspective, it is of interest to understand the required quantity of skills such that one is considered competent for specific jobs. Typically, degree programs prepare students with the needed quantity of skills for a field/job, however this information is less available and uncertain for individuals who have already graduated but are seeking a new job. There are many professional skills certificate programs after graduation, however again one is not certain of acquiring all the required skills for obtaining desired employment. In such an event, it is logical for seeking candidates with a degree to continually improve their skills while applying until they have found suitable employment; continued fulfillment of required company criteria via professional training is optimal to obtain employment. It would be less optimal or impossible for job applicants to find employment, with their current skills if companies did not accept them with their current credentials.  

MEASURE: predict the number of features required to be competent for a particular job title 
Label = Ask LLM if a certain cv would be accepted to a certain job post based on similarity 
Search cv and the job post for matching keywords, if the label=1, the keywords are features
Possible features: degree (DS=3, CS_engineering=2, non-related field=1), # of papers, # of repositories (linux, pypi), # of github projects, # of certificate tests passed, # of certificates,  # of linkedin badges, # of cloud platforms known/used (Azure, AWS, GCP), cloud path training completion number, past job description similarity to job post description, # of years working, previous job title similarity to job post title, previous company similarity to job post company


Lack of rules and regulations
Observation 15: Irresponsible technologies that we all use - losing your life in spam/pub marketing to join causes
There are technologies that we all use, that give and take control from our lives. Technology allows us to do more, but at the same time technology is not used in isolation. One person’s technological usage influences other people’s technological usage, whether it be a company releasing a product or a person posting a photo.
On some level we are not free to use technology as we please because of our influential connections with other people. Depending on the group of people whom one is surrounded with, like social media or our environmental cluster (ie: family, friends), the same technological usage can bring success or destruction. When surrounding people see other people’s data, the surrounding people/cluster’s perception of the data creates and applies value to the success of the data. For this reason, being associated with the correct people aligned with one’s goals are important. Having associations with people or being a part of a group that does not value the same goals as your goals, will result in lack of success or no success because the opinions of the larger group will be aligned with their goals and not yours. Poorly aligned associations with respect to goals will create little to no success and result in misunderstandings, feelings of being used or victimhood, and even violence. Large groups of people misaligned with their proper long-term goals and abilities could even cause a population group of misplaced people in society.
Current technologies may not help users to be optimally aligned with their interest groups. Technologies like Facebook and LinkedIn encourage using people outside of one’s cluster to gather new and exciting opportunities/information/data sources. A policy of mixing clusters could be destructive for someone with a small highly specialized cluster. The smaller cluster group would less likely have their goals fulfilled, and the larger/mixed group would not even fully understand the goals of the smaller group. The larger group interest would be focused on the superficial understanding of what the smaller group represents and not their actual goals and interests. 
Spam and/or publicity received to join a cause could indicate that one may be part of a larger publicity association/group, by being a small member in a large group with varying interest than yours could potentially diminish the specialization of your individual group [citation]. The smaller/individual will be given information from the larger group, such that the smaller group will be more like them because in marketing, individuals that embody the cause of a group are likely to participate; the small group goal’s need to transform into the large group goal’s in order for the larger group to optimally succeed. Thankfully, there are more and more preferences and regulations that individual people can control with respect to an association, such that they can control the influence of the larger group on their existence. 
The idea of being “lost in the cracks of the system” is the same phenomenon of being poorly aligned with individuals that do not have the same long-term work or life goals as oneself. 

MEASURE: Try to measure lack of success (people or companies) due to being poorly aligned with associations. Make up features for different life paths: life path 0 (attributes/features a writer does), life path 1 (attributes/features a data science person does), life path 2 (attributes/features a XXX does). 
Diminish the feature value by adding “noise”, a feature transformation that accounts for wrong associations (diminish the feature values by the incorrect information present) 
Compare prediction of life path with noisy_features and with non-noisy_features : the difference is the lack of success 

In addition to being "lost in the system" due to misalignment of associations, technology is becoming more and more complex such that it is unclear how using a digital product may influence one’s life. Is it dangerous to use products where one does not fully understand how they function? As technology advances everyone understands less and less about how the tools that they use everyday actually function, nor may they understand how technology influenced their life over a long-term period.

From a company perspective who provides the digital tools to users, not fully understanding how a tool may function may cause companies to unfortunately make limited decisions and errors with user data, such as users getting "lost in the cracks of the system", because not all the information is clear. Tools have many options that make the significance of usage abstract, the abstraction of what it means to use the tools is often the cause of constant correction and the need to constantly say “sorry” to users for the errors. Regulation and usage of a tool where one does not fully understand its literal implications, is a constant battle that tool makers (Mlops and Devops) are trying to make fair and just by using consent forms (ie: terms and agreements) and consumer feedback.
We are all far more connected and influenced by technology in our daily lives than we realize, it would be responsible and constructive if the user also tried to be responsible with their data, and not just as the digital companies. Already, there are many free and available models that users can use to predict and understand their personal behavior, such that they can better understand themselves. Users could empower themselves and make data-driven “horoscopes, tarot cards, angel cards” with their personal data to predict many aspects of their lives (ie: success, motivation, health, etc). 
No more being “lost between the cracks” or “lost behind the wall”! Everyone should have the chance to advance their life forward within society, with constructive life interests, without being stuck in a misaligned societal group.






Observation 16: Technology that helps us to be our better selves
Many technologies are made in a way that adapts to the user such that it is easier for the user to operate the device, thus motivating usage of the technology. However, the natural usage of user inspired technology may not be optimal if it encourages violence, depression, and injustice. Human nature is both as kind as it can be cruel.
It is commonplace to experience a social media discussion degrade into a non-neutral emotional state, where the topic of the conversation is not the focus. The purpose of using most communication technology is to gain insight on the subject of the conversation, not to be emotionally weighted down by distractions.
Currently, technologies have mechanisms that block emotionally charged and/or offensive words/behavior, but there are no teaching mechanisms that help users to communicate in a more efficient and participatory manner. 
In a fast paced society, many people are not aware of their optimal ability to communicate effectively, one does not really know what a truly enjoyable and/or effective conversation is until it has been experienced. 
Negative thinking and/or practicing “dark humor”/sarcasm are small innocent behaviors that are easy to repeat, and cause one to have a limited range of emotional response and thus communication. 


Observation 17: The measured influence of one’s family
Our immediate families set a background or starting point for our individual future success. If one is born into a family that excels/performs physical tasks for their professional career, like sports or outdoors activities, the children are likely to gain more experience in the activity and have an advantage for future success. Similarly, parents that work in technical fields or enjoy technical activities are likely to encourage their children to do more technical activities. In general, a family that has hobbies and participates in a diverse number of activities expose their children to more possible career choices. 
Also, many families use their social networking contacts, in an effort to expose their children to diverse data sources and future career paths. It is logical that as one increases exposure to more data sources, and thus experiences, one is likely to have more options and knowledge thus allowing for more success. Conversely, over exposure to too much information can be overwhelming and distracting, causing an inability to focus and thus achieve success.

MEASURE: predict career path based on life exposure experiences
Features: type_of_data_source*exposure_time  = [reading, sport, music ] = [3, 1, 0] 
What is the maximum number of data sources needed for success, before it becomes a disadvantage? 

Since immediate family members strongly influence the success of their children, the family is responsible for passing knowledge to their children and encouraging them to engage in beneficial and/or educational topics. Seeking beneficial and/or educational data sources may lead people to be encouraged to participate in “fan-like” activities of “high performers”, such as following a Kaggle champion on Kaggle, or having over excitement for normal topic related information. 
In my opinion, over-excitation about a person, event, or website can often lead to distraction from the desired topic, and unnecessary focus on appearance and/or reputation. Over-excitation on appearance and/or reputation may cause dependance on a person or brand and not teach children/learners to take responsibility for their education. The accomplishments of high performers should be used as motivation for success, and the student should want to accomplish the work themselves without being distracted by excitement. High performers have lives like normal people, and it may be an unnecessary burden for them to carry the emotional weight of fan expectations when they are already sharing knowledge and information that few people can create; they maintain a space for novices to join, if they are lucky enough to reach their level. If data source focus is targeted towards high performers, instead of topic information, the ability for high performers to work at a high level may be diminished by the fans themselves and there will be no high performer space for people to even join. High performers are people, passionate about a topic, that are trying to do their job the best that they can. Taking responsibility for one’s own education, by focusing on the data source topic instead of the performer, is important so that we “can all stand on the shoulders of giants” and not destroy those more talented than us.

MEASURE: number of participants (fan presence), over all distraction from the desired topic. Do a lot of people cause distraction from a topic?



Observation 18: Being the “Best”
Being the “Best” implies dominating the competition and being above others for a particular skill/task. Domination of others also implies isolation, because the talent puts one in a different category than the others around them.
In the past, there were few people who had education and so learned individuals progressed their skills in isolation, with very few peer interaction. However, in modern society where there are more educated people with high skill levels, is it advantageous to be the “Best” in isolation? Isolation would mean staying immersed with others who are not interested in learning and/or working at a high level on a certain skill.
It may be positive to be the “Best” in isolation, to have freedom to develop ideas if one has the personality to self-generate ideas alone. However, in general working with similarly interested people in a particular skill is: motivating and thus work is often completed faster, encourages rapid improvements and idea generation, encourages life balance and self-understanding because there are like-minded people to observe and give one perspective/context on their own life, choices, and actual skill level in the task. Having peers that are “Better” than yourself means that one can have realistic long-term goals aligned with the next level of expertise. In addition, the presence of someone highly skilled gives hope and motivation that ‘anything is possible’, in particular the problems encountered at a lower skill level.

MEASURE: the number of successful people who achieved success alone instead of working in successful teams...or something with workplace success. Hypothesis: teams of the “Best people” are more successful than isolated people who are the “Best”.

In general, I find that in modern society everyone works in successful teams where no single person is always the most competent. Different team members take turns being the “Best” for different tasks and at different moments, thus allowing people who were previously the “Best” to recharge and continue to advance as a group. In this way, novice people can grow and become competent, while the already competent people can think about the novice person’s perspective and recreate their ideas from a higher skill perspective. A never-ending cycle of development; the skilled learning from the unskilled and the unskilled becoming the skilled.


Observation 19:  When playing is a Luxury
Enjoying one’s self after their basic needs have been satisfied signifies that one has the luxury to play. Playing could mean going on vacation, taking days off from work, or just allowing oneself to not have a task. In another indirect sense, "playing" could mean stalling or wasting time and/or ressources without any long-term plan or objective ; living in the moment and following events from moment-to-moment.
Stalling life success or endeavors can be destructive if exaggerated beyond a certain limit because all things in life grow and evolve with time. Playing beyond a certain limit may not prepare one for the future or encourage one to excel; a stalled life means a life of unfulfilled hopes and dreams. Human life is limited to 65-100 years and there is only so much one can accomplish within the constraints of society. Playing is fun in the moment, but the experiences obtained from life advancement through work may be more rewarding and exciting because they are unknown experiences that are likely to enable deeper emotional states of "play". The unknown is intriguing because it is something rare amongst may repeated known experiences. "Playing" at the same stuck state in life signifies banal repetition of the same jokes and/or understanding of one's self and others; content with having nothing more interesting in life than the experiences already obtained. Constant play in the moment, without obtaining new experiences means "no future", a type of living death.
The contents that one "plays'' with is the culmination of one's present intellectual capacity. The more one learns, the more interesting the "games'' are when one "plays". For this reason, purposeful "playing" is a luxury, and education is a basic life need; play is purposeful when basic life needs are satisfied before one has the luxury to play. Work and achievement are needed between periods of "play" to allow for continuous life and mental advancement, such that periods of "play" can be non-repetitive, interesting, and non-disruptive with work/life advancement.

MEASURE : predict when life becomes banal/stuck (ie: depression)
Features : change in knowledge, repetition of behavior




Observation 20: Misclassification due to multiple meaning keywords (des faux amis)
Ideas are not always communicated correctly, a poorly written or spoken phrase may convey misleading information to individuals and/or organizations (ie: groups). Misclassifying similar groups as the same subject can be both beneficial or detrimental for groups, depending on the size of the group as mentioned in Observation 15. For example, a small group, a person,  joining a large group, a job search site like, is likely to have their information overshadowed by the information of the large group (ie: job search recommendations of the information from peers/colleagues with respect to person’s profile), previously called misalignment meaning the person may receive large group related information that less related to their profile. In addition to misalignment, and regardless of group size, different groups can be given wrong information because they use shared keywords that have multiple meanings. For example, a Data Scientist can be misclassified as a Data Specialist because both groups use the keyword “model”. “Model” for a Data Scientist means Machine Learning and Deep Learning algorithms that predict an outcome based on data, however “model” or more specifically “data model” for a Data Specialist means the ingestion of datasets and connection of database tables via a primary key and/or secondary keys. The usage of “model” for these two groups signifies two completely different concepts. If a Data Scientist joined a group of Data Specialists because the word “model” was used on a job post ambiguously, the Data Scientist would quickly understand that they are in the wrong group because of familiar words used ambiguously. Thankfully, Data Scientist and Data Specialists work together and have shared overlapping tasks.
However in fields where keywords include the general population, like art, misclassification may limit opportunity for above average trained/specialized people while providing opportunity for less trained people. The word “art” is loosely used for almost any act of creative painting and/or drawing, regardless of the artist's professional credentials. The work of a trained professional is called the same word as the work of a child, or an untrained talented criminal painting graffiti.  Novice and untrained participants are uplifted to obtain more knowledge about the general field of art because their knowledge is below average for the field. However, trained professionals with a level above average would receive known information and contacts, thus not encouraging advancement opportunities. This implies that it may be beneficial for professionally trained artists with a level above average to use more specialized keywords to dissociate themselves from the general population, to prevent receiving general non-advancing information due to misalignment and misclassification.

MEASURE: to prevent misclassification there needs to be more features considered to separate interest groups in feature space
What is the optimal number of features needed to separate two profiles that use the same keywords for their field?
Classify Data Scientist from Data Specialist
Classify professional artist from general art
If you are using the correct keywords to identify yourself, but are receiving incorrect information and/or responses, it may indicate that more descriptive keywords are needed to distinguish one’s self from other groups with shared keywords. Keep specializing yourself to stop misclassification!
 

Observation 21: Allow others to have individual success - “Live your Happy Life”
There are XXX main reasons why individuals should be vigilant about correcting misalignment and misclassification,
In the event of misalignment and misclassification, individuals may suffer and/or lose time because they need to make additional efforts to correctly align with their desired associations and interests.

% misalignment : Small group is not interested in all the topics of the large group, the small group has overlapping feature space with the large group. Use only key features of interest of the small group to separate the large group from the small group.   
Even Though we are more technologically connected than ever before, one can not always stay directly connected with others due to misaligned interests. Some people intellectually grow faster than others, and the experiences that they create may be too advanced or uninteresting for others. One is likely to achieve greater success if they are aligned with specialized groups of similarly interested people, instead of a large group of people interested in diverse topics; when individuals find their specialized groups the group lets the person go to live their happy life.

% misclassification








Self-help activities
Life encouragement phrases: how to make long-term goal phrases
Everyone should have life encouragement phrase/s that repeat and reinforce their long-term life goals such that their short-term behavior is constantly realizing the long-term goals.
To construct a long-term goals phrase:
    1. make a short list of three to four things that you would like to achieve in the next one to two years. (ie: I want to save at least 3000 in a year)
    2. Rewrite each of the three to four things in terms of a descriptive phrase; a descriptive phrase that rhymes is recommended because it can be more memorable and the lyrical sound is likely to create feelings of motivation to accomplish the goal. Be sure to use verbs in past tense to convince/trick your brain into thinking that the task has been completed. (ie: I have 3000 more in the next year with 8 saved each day!)
    3. Repeat the phrases to yourself when you think about your goals, or when you want to motivate yourself to succeed at a short-term task that will bring you closer to your long-term goals.


Me against myself in self-sabotage: what to do when you sabotage your success
Disturbances and distractions happen to everyone and the create self-sabotage, how to try to minimize external distractions and align/focus with your goals to prevent self-sabotage.
When you are not performing a desired task:
    1. Identify the things that are holding you back 
    2. Make a long-term goal phrase to correct what is holding you back

During task time:
    1. Follow the “Stress, anxiety, frustration, and depression” steps to redirect unwanted emotions triggered by the things that are holding you back
 

Basic rules for decision making
Four simple rules to make successful/positive future life choices.
    1. Keep in mind the current physical situation when making the decision.
    2. Do not emotionally judge the current situation and/or physical things/people involved
    3. Think of two to three possible solutions, and pick the most logical choice for success
    4. Do not change the plan/choice at the last minute, at least try it because it was selected as the most logical choice for success. If the choice is not realizable or deemed incorrect, repeat the steps.


Riding the wave of anger: what to do when you are angry
When situations arise that cause anger, it is difficult to be in full-control of one’s thoughts. If one is not in full-control, things that are said and done may be regretted. 
If you are fortunate enough to not need to talk with anyone when you are angry, try these steps to slowly remove the feeling of anger:
    1. Write down why you are angry
    2. Identify who you are angry at and adopt different perspectives like, 1st person like a comedian (ie: “I/we/let’s do A”) or 3rd person (ie: “he/she/they do A”)
    3. Make a list of each item/idea that you are angry about and write a few phrases about it using either 1st or 3rd person. If the ideas make you really angry, write the idea from a comedian's perspective to make the ideas absurd. Making the ideas absurd can banalize the ideas and make the feelings about the ideas less strong. If you choose the 3rd person perspective try to write the ideas as factual and neutral as possible, so that you can analyze why the ideas/events make you angry. Once you understand why the ideas/events trigger angry, you are likely to be less angry and think about the ideas more objectively.
If you are unfortunate enough to write or be alone, tell people briefly and clearly that you are angry about a specific topic and why. If people know that you are feeling angry and why, people will be considerate of your time and/or emotional state. 


Stress, anxiety, frustration, and depression: what to do when you when you feel these states and do not want to experience them
Unwanted emotional states happen to everyone, problems can occur when these unwanted emotional states linger or keep occurring. When unwanted emotional states occur, performing a short task in repetition may help to serve as a distraction to change one’s mental state [citation]. 
Select a short task that is emotionally exciting or mentally engaging, so that when you perform the task your current low (anxiety, frustration, depressive) mental state changes. For example, everytime you feel anxious and you wish to feel happy, pick a task that makes you feel happy.   
The following scenario is an example of how one might distract one’s self to feel less emotional discomfort:
    1. You are performing a task, and overwhelmingly feel stressed/anxious because you may not make a deadline that you promised. 
    2. Perform two tasks to distract yourself from the unwanted emotions: 1. Write down the steps that you need to do to succeed, 2. Do a small trivial task where you get up from your work location, while performing this task mentally picture the steps that you wrote down. This should take about 5 minutes.
    3. Return to your original task, feeling refocused and that you are doing your best to accomplish the work. Force yourself to work; you will probably not feel initially better but at least you have done something safe and productive to make you feel better. Think that you have already accomplished something even though you feel bad. Continue performing the original task for as long as you  can with reason.
    4. Repeat step 2 again. Rewrite the list, or look at the list, or check off items that you completed from the list to feel a sense of accomplishment. Then do the small trivial task where you get up from your work location, always mentally repeat and focus on the list at least once.
    5. Return to the original task, then repeat step 2. Continue switching between the two tasks until the original task is finished, with practice your mental state will be able to change to neutral focus just by doing the short task.
During the entire process, remember to think to yourself that you are doing your best, and your best is ‘good enough’; stopping is the only thing that would prevent you from doing your best, so just keep going and never think of stopping!      








References
[1] Disaster and its impact on mental health: A narrative review. J Family Med Prim Care. 2019 Oct; 8(10): 3090–3095. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6857396/
